Assignment 1 – Using Command Prompt
Compile and execute the following Java program through Command Prompt
 Create a folder “practice” in your system
 Create a file Welcome.java in practice folder. Create a class ‘Welcome’ in the file with
a main method to display “Welcome to java programming”
 Compile the class from “practice” folder using javac command
 Execute the program from command prompt using java command
 
Assignment 2 – Using Command Line Arguments
Create a class CommandTest in practice folder which takes two command line arguments
 CommandTest should accept two command line arguments and display them on console
 Execute the program from command prompt and pass the below two command line arguments
Learning Java
2017
 Observe the results by doing the following
o Pass only one argument during execution
o Pass three arguments during execution
 
 
3. 
For an ongoing cricket match, data about overs bowled, current run rate and target runs is
known. The captain needs help in computing the required run rate to win the match.
Write a program to compute the required run rate. Program should take overs bowled, current
run rate and the target as input. Consider 50 over match.
Calculation:
Input: overs bowled = 10, current run rate = 4.2, target = 250
Required run rate = (250 – (4.2*10)) / 40 = 5.2
Input:
The first input is an integer which corresponds to the number of overs bowled so far. The
second input is a float which corresponds to the current run rate. The third input is an integer
which corresponds to the target score.
Sample
Enter the number of overs bowled so far
10
Enter the current run rate
4.2
Enter the target score
250
 
 
4. 
Assignment 4 – Special Sequence
In a special sequence of numbers, 2, 1 and 3 are the 1st three numbers. All other numbers in
the sequence are generated by the sum of their 3 most recent predecessors.
Write a program to generate this special sequence where the last number in the sequence is
less than or equal to the input number ‘n’
Input Format:
Input consists of a single integer which corresponds to n.
Output Format:
Output consists of the Sequence, separated by a single space. There are no leading or
trailing spaces in the output.
Sample Input
20
Sample Output
2 1 3 6 10 19
 
 
5. 
Find Participant ID
A training batch has n number of participants. Every participant has a 4 digit ID. Given an ID,
the trainer should be able to tell whether the participant belongs to his/her batch.
Develop a program to help the trainer store the participant IDs and search for a given ID.
Input to the program should be ‘n’ number of students, and ID’s of n students.
The program should terminate when the search ID provided is 0
Sample Input and output
[Output from the program are in bold below]
Enter the number participants
5
Enter the IDs
1000 1001 1002 1003 1004
Enter ID to search
1002
Participant with ID 1002 exists
Enter ID to search
1005
Participant with ID 1005 does not exist
Enter ID to search
0
Program terminated
 